Create MAINTENANCE_STANDARDS.md (#10709)
dependabot/dependabot-core: MAINTENANCE_STANDARDS.md

> This document outlines a standardized policy for when Dependabot will cease guaranteeing support with package managers, and for when it begin supporting a new version. "Cease guaranteeing support" is intentionally distinct from "deprecating support", because just because something's not supported, doesn't necessarily mean that we need to "rip out support immediately". Instead, it means more like, "if supporting this becomes a problem, we won't fix it".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document outlines a standardized policy for when Dependabot will cease guaranteeing support for old versions of package managers and languages, and for when it will add support for new versions. "Cease guaranteeing support" is intentionally distinct from "deprecating support", because just because something's not supported, doesn't necessarily mean that we need to "rip out support immediately". Instead, it means more like, "if supporting this becomes a problem, we won't fix it".
```

These principles will need to be weighed against the unique circumstances, but without principles, we won't ever be able to make consistent decisions.

> 
> Note, this builds on ideas documented internally earlier by @jeffwidman.
> 

Reviewer: Appreciate the shoutout ❤️ , but doing it in the PR description is good enough, it's a distraction within the actual document.

```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: +

**General support principles**

> We should try to align with the ideas of [SemVer](https://semver.org/), but we can’t guarantee everything will follow that.

Reviewer 3: We are moving towards [SemVer2](https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-core/pull/10434)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should try to align with the ideas of [SemVer2](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html), but we can’t guarantee everything will follow that.
```

* Support compatibility with major versions within 1 quarter  
  * Rationale: major versions will (presumably) have breaking updates, and users will follow them.   
* New features, e.g. a new lockfile type - Support within 2-4 quarters  

>   * Rationale: This allows time for users to transition to using it. Not jumping on it immediately will also let the community gauge adoption so we don’t waste time on features nobody uses  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Rationale: This allows time for users to transition to using it. Not jumping on it immediately will also let the community gauge adoption so we don’t waste time on features nobody uses.
```

>     * Exception: if it’s a **breaking** change that forces users to use the new thing - support that within 1 quarter (if it’s Semver, that should be a major version - but 🤷)  

Reviewer 3: should we remove "(if it’s Semver, that should be a major version - but 🤷)"

Reviewer: (not a strongly held opinion) Personally, I kinda like the whimsicality here... it keeps the tone light in what can otherwise be a boring, somber document... I'd file this under "intentional branding choice".

**Deprecation principles**

> * Deprecate within 6 months of a version of the package manager being deprecated, or whenever it becomes a problem for us to maintain its support. We will publish deprecation notices within the GitHub Changelog, and where possible, we will send warnings to users about using versions targeted for deprecation within Dependabot.

Reviewer 3: "Deprecations happen within 6 months of a version of the package manager being deprecated"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once a version is deprecated by upstream, we do not guarantee to support it with additional bugfixes. However, typically we delay removing existing support for that version for 3-6 months after upstream deprecates it.

[!NOTE]  
"Cease guaranteeing support" is intentionally distinct from "removing support"... even though a version may be deprecated, we may leave it around in the code for a bit to give folks more time to transition. We won't provide additional bugfixes, but if a community member steps up to provide a bugfix during that time, we will likely merge it. However, once leaving support in the code increases our maintenance costs / decreases our code velocity, then we will remove it.
 
We will publish deprecation notices within the GitHub Changelog, and where possible, we will send warnings to users about using versions targeted for deprecation within Dependabot.
```

  * Rationale: if it’s EOL by the maintainers, we shouldn’t need to keep supporting it either.  But also, unless it’s actively doing harm, there is probably not a rush.

**New package managers**

> * We need to treat these like new ecosystems and be cautious about supporting without careful consideration, given the ongoing maintenance costs associated. See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#contributing-new-ecosystems) for more details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We need to treat these like new ecosystems and be cautious about supporting without careful consideration, given the ongoing maintenance costs associated. See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#contributing-new-ecosystems) for more details.
```

This document outlines a standardized policy for when Dependabot will cease guaranteeing support for old versions of package managers and languages, and for when it will add support for new versions. "Cease guaranteeing support" is intentionally distinct from "deprecating support", because just because something's not supported, doesn't necessarily mean that we need to "rip out support immediately". Instead, it means more like, "if supporting this becomes a problem, we won't fix it".

These principles will need to be weighed against the unique circumstances, but without principles, we won't ever be able to make consistent decisions.
**General support principles**

We should try to align with the ideas of [SemVer2](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html), but we can’t guarantee everything will follow that.

> * Support compatibility with major versions within 1 quarter  

Reviewer 4: these timelines make sense as principles to me. to the point of the sentence above:

> These principles will need to be weighed against the unique circumstances, but without principles, we won't ever be able to make consistent decisions.

**Deprecation principles**

* Once a version is deprecated by upstream, we do not guarantee to support it with additional bugfixes. However, typically we delay removing existing support for that version for a minimum of 3-6 months after upstream deprecates it.

[!NOTE]  
"Cease guaranteeing support" is intentionally distinct from "removing support"... even though a version may be deprecated, we may leave it around in the code for a bit to give folks more time to transition. We won't provide additional bugfixes, but if a community member steps up to provide a bugfix during that time, we will likely merge it. However, once leaving support in the code increases our maintenance costs / decreases our code velocity, then we will remove it.
 
We will publish deprecation notices within the GitHub Changelog, and where possible, we will send warnings to users about using versions targeted for deprecation within Dependabot.
  * Rationale: if it’s EOL by the maintainers, we shouldn’t need to keep supporting it either.  But also, unless it’s actively doing harm, there is probably not a rush.

**New package managers**

> * We need to treat these like new ecosystems and be cautious about supporting without careful consideration, given the ongoing maintenance costs associated. See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#contributing-new-ecosystems) for more details.

Reviewer 4: @carlincherry  note: this is a community, add something here about community support importance for maintaining the ecosystems over time

Reviewer 4: other thoughts: structure for systematic review for ecosystem maintenance
